Changes to the Testing Custom URL Schemes section (#1805)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05h-Testing-Platform-Interaction.md

### Overview

Android allows you to create two different types of links for your apps: deep links and Android App Links. According to the [Android Developer Documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links#app-links-vs-deep-links "Deep linking and Android App Links"), **deep links** are URLs that take users directly to specific content in your app. You can set up deep links by adding _intent filters_ and extracting data from incoming intents to drive users to the right activity. You can even use any custom scheme prefix such as `myapp`, which will result in the URI prefix "myapp://". These kind of deep links are also referred to as "Custom URL Schemes" and are typically used as a form of inter-app communication where an app can define certain actions (including the corresponding parameters) that can be triggered by other apps.

> This method of defining deep links via intent filters has an important issue: any other apps installed on a user's device can declare and try to handle the same intent (typically a custom URL scheme). This is known as **deep link collision** where by arbitrary applications can declare control over the exact same URL custom scheme as another application. In recent versions of Android this results in a so-called _disambiguation dialog_ being shown to the user and asking them to select the application that should handle the link. The user could make the mistake of choosing a malicious application instead of the legitimate one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method of defining deep links via intent filters has an important issue: any other apps installed on a user's device can declare and try to handle the same intent (typically a custom URL scheme). This is known as **deep link collision** where any arbitrary application can declare control over the exact same URL custom scheme belonging to another application. In recent versions of Android this results in a so-called _disambiguation dialog_ being shown to the user and asking them to select the application that should handle the link. The user could make the mistake of choosing a malicious application instead of the legitimate one.
```

> 

Author: I'd definitely be inclined to say that the section is really more so about "Testing Deep Linking" as you mention.

Since Android 6.0 (API Level 23) a developer can opt to define [App Links](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/verify-site-associations "Verify Android App Links"), which are verified deep links based on a website URL explicitly registered by the developer. Clicking on an App Link will immediately open the app if it's installed and most importantly, **the disambiguation dialog won't be prompted** and therefore collisions are not possible anymore.

There are some key differences from _regular_ deep links to consider:

- App Links only use `http://` and `https://` schemes, custom schemes are not allowed.
- App Links require a live domain to serve a [Digital Asset Links file](https://developers.google.com/digital-asset-links/v1/getting-started "Digital Asset Link") via HTTPS.

> - Verified App links will not show a disambiguation dialog when a user opens a link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- App links do not suffer from deep link collision since they don't show a disambiguation dialog when a user opens them.
```

 Consider the following slightly contrived examples of deep linking:

```default
sms://compose/to=your.boss@company.com&message=I%20QUIT!&sendImmediately=true
```

 When a victim clicks such a link on a mobile device, the vulnerable SMS application will send an SMS message from the target's phone containing attacker-crafted content. This could lead to:

- Financial loss for the victim if messages are sent to premium services.
- Disclosure of the victim's phone number if messages are sent to predefined addresses that collect phone numbers.
- Potentially damaging social consequences for the targeted individual depending on the content sent.

 Another application specific example of deep linking is show below:

```default
myapp://mybeautifulapp/endpoint?Whatismyname=MyNameIs<svg onload=alert(1)>&MyAgeIs=100
```

> This application deep link demonstrates abuse of a link in order to target known vulnerabilities already identified within an application. In this example consider an application running a web view with JavaScript enabled, and that the `Whatismyname` parameter is reflected into the web view. In this case, this payload would trigger reflected cross site scripting within the context of the web view when the `Whatismyname` variable is rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deep link could be used in order to abuse some known vulnerabilities already identified within an application. For instance, consider an application running a WebView with JavaScript enabled and rendering a `Whatismyname` parameter. In this concrete case, the deep link payload would trigger reflected cross site scripting within the context of the WebView.
```

```

The following example specifies a new App Link using both the `http://` and `https://` schemes, along with the host and path which will activate it (in this case, the full URL would be `https://www.myapp.com/my/app/path`):

```xml
<activity android:name=".MyUriActivity">
  <intent-filter android:autoVerify="true">
      <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
      <data android:scheme="http" android:host="www.myapp.com" android:path="/my/app/path" />
      <data android:scheme="https" android:host="www.myapp.com" android:path="/my/app/path" />
  </intent-filter>
</activity>

```

> In this example, the `<intent-filter>` includes the flag `android:autoVerify="true"`, which causes the Android system to reach out to the declared `android:host` in an attempt to access the [Digital Asset Links file](https://developers.google.com/digital-asset-links/v1/getting-started "Digital Asset Link") in order to [verify the App Links](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/verify-site-associations "Verify Android App Links").

Author: My understanding is that if this flag (autoVerify) doesn't exist then the system just treats it as a regular deep link using HTTP/S.

Its the logic that happens after declaring auto verify (the system reaching out to the digital asset links files, etc etc) that causes the deep link to be an app link.

}
```

The usage of the [`getIntent`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Intent#getIntent(java.lang.String) "getIntent()")  and [`getData`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Intent#getData%28%29 "getData()") should be verified in order to understand how the application uses this intent, and if it is abusable. This general approach of locating the `getIntent` method can be used across most applications for reverse engineering and understanding how the application handles and uses custom URL schemes. This knowledge is of great importance when attempting to abuse custom URL schemes.

### Dynamic Analysis

To test these URL schemes a list of custom URL schemes should be built up by analyzing the AndroidManifest.xml file as aforementioned in the Static Analysis section.

> Each custom URL scheme defined should then be individually tested, these URL schemes can be interacted with by using the [Activity Manager (am) tool](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/deep-linking#testing-filters "Activity Manager") to send intents within the Android device that call the custom URL schemes:

Author: Good addition
